Okay, so
another thing that we're gonna run into in
the real world are bugs in our code.
I hate to break it to you, but
no matter how good you get at JavaScript,
you're never gonna be a perfect software
developer because that thing does
not exist.
And so we all have bugs in our
code from time to time, or
you could say, like share in clueless
we are like totally bugging.
Question is what do we do about it?
So how can we be bugging?
Yeah, so
that's what we're gonna talk about now.
Again, because the fact of life
a certainty of life especially in a loosey
goosey kind of language like JavaScript
where you could get undefined anytime or
it doesn't really care if you pass in
the wrong arguments to a function,
stuff is gonna go wrong.
Spectacular failure is part of the game
of being a JavaScript developer.
So we just have to be able to roll with
the punches and try to figure out when
we have something wrong in our code
try to figure out what is going wrong.
So for example, one of the things that we
could do that I definitely use plenty and
we could use to kind of check
our understanding of what's
happening in our code is to
log things to the console.
So this can be a useful way for
us to kind of assure ourselves of,
let's say the fact that we're executing
the body of a function if we log something
when we start running that function
body then we know that we got that far.
And then we also have our console.warn and
console.error if we want to kind of
make it pop out a little bit more
with those exclamation point,
warning signs in the browser.
And so we can do things like let's
say log values, logs certain things
within our code just to make sure to
kind to check our understanding and
to make sure that things are giving
us the values that we expect.
Sort of how in the console like as we've
been working iteratively on our different
functionality, we've been just checking
things like, is an empty array truthy or
falsey?
Or did we get the right poodle standard
string that we wanted out of this
particular function?
That sort of thing.
So console log is a totally valid
debugging technique that you can use,
but sometimes you don't want your program
really cluttered up with all kinds of
console log statements.
So often this will be a temporary thing
that as a developer you're working
through, you're developing locally,
you're testing things out,
you're maybe logging some things.
You probably wanna remember
to take them out at the end.
And so sometimes that can mean that things
get forgotten, things get left in there,
you end up with a whole
bunch of console output.
And sometimes if you're loading
a web page out there, and
now that we're all using our developer
tools and inspecting the page and
looking at the console you might
see stuff that's logging out from
somebody else's code because they were
just checking values and things like that.
So that is one thing we
can do to be debugging.